README.md, before:

# 🐶 app-hound

**app-hound** is your energetic Mac audit companion! It sniffs out, fetches, and reports all top-level folders and files related to your apps, making it easy to clean up old traces or confidently uninstall software. Big on fun, clarity, and reliability, app-hound never includes noisy missing data or deep file listings, giving you a clear audit trail.

***

## Features

- 🐶 **Playful, doggy-themed audit messages**
- Sniffs out **top-level folders and files only**—anything inside can safely be deleted!
- **Automatic scanning of common macOS application and user data locations**
- **Extensible config** for additional custom locations (`additional_locations`)
- **Launches installers** for apps where desired
- **Clean, standards-compliant CSV output**:
  `App Name, Base Path, Folder, File name`
- **Tested to >95% coverage**
- Works with __Poetry__ for easy setup and dependency management

***

## Installation & Setup

1. **Install [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation):**
   ```bash
   curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
   ```

2. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/app-hound.git
   cd app-hound
   ```

3. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   poetry install
   ```

***

## Configuration (`apps_config.json`)

App-hound uses a single config file at the project root.

**Example:**
```json
{
  "apps": [
    {
      "name": "PDF Expert",
      "additional_locations": ["/opt/pdfexpert", "/usr/local/share/pdfexpert"],
      "installation_path": "~/Downloads/pdf_expert_installer.pkg"
    },
    {
      "name": "Slack"
      // Only defaults, no extra locations
    }
  ]
}
```

- **name:** The application's name.
- **additional_locations:** Optional extra locations to sniff for top-level folders/files.
- **installation_path:** Optional installer path (local only) if installation should be performed.

***

## Usage

1. **Run app-hound:**
   ```bash
   poetry run app-hound -i ./
   ```
   Or sniff a single app without a config file:
   ```bash
   poetry run app-hound -a "Slack"
   ```
2. **Follow prompts:**
   - Enter any installer paths if relevant (app-hound will fetch them for you!).
   - Enter the desired output CSV filename.

## Help

- **app-hound -h**: Display help message.
- **app-hound -i <path>**: Specify the directory containing apps_config.json.
- **app-hound -o <filename>**: Specify output CSV filename.
- **app-hound -a "<app name>"**: Audit a single application without using apps_config.json.

***

## Audit Logic

- App-hound **lists only top-level folders and files whose name includes the app name**.
- If a folder named with your app exists in a target location, everything inside can be considered for deletion.
- **No "not found" entries** appear in the final CSV; playful status is shown in the console only.

**Example audit results in the CSV:**
```
App Name,Base Path,Folder,File name
PDF Expert,/Applications/PDF Expert.app,False,PDF Expert.app
PDF Expert,/Users/rohitkhanduri/Library/Application Support/PDF Expert,True,none
```

**Example console output:**
```
🐶 app-hound sniffs extra spots for 'PDF Expert'!
🐶 app-hound checks custom path: /opt/pdfexpert... Bingo! Found!
🐶 app-hound checks custom path: /usr/local/share/pdfexpert... No scent detected!
🐶 app-hound sniffs: '/Users/rohitkhanduri/Library/Application Support/PDF Expert' (folder exists). Ready to fetch all traces!
```

***

## Testing & Coverage

- Tests cover installer logic, config loading, playful console output, audit CSV, edge cases, and top-level matching.
- Confirm coverage with:
  ```bash
  poetry run pytest --cov=src/app_hound
  ```
- All console output and audit logic is covered; **coverage >95%**.

***

## Advanced & Contributing

- All major Mac user and system locations are searched by default—extend `additional_locations` for niche app data!
- Playful emoji and dog jokes are always welcome in PRs.
- Want an option to list all files recursively? Open an issue or send a PR!

***

## License

MIT

***

## About

A friendly doggy companion for Mac users and admins, app-hound helps you keep your system lean and clean (and might earn itself a treat!).

Commit message:

feat: Merge multiple configs; expand env vars
Add support for loading and merging multiple apps_config.json files and expanding environment variables in config paths. Introduces expand_env_vars and load_apps_from_multiple_json in finder.py, and validate_config_paths plus comma-separated -i input handling in main.py to load single or multiple config files. Update README to document flexible config loading and env var expansion. Add TODO.md with planned improvements. Update and extend tests to cover multiple-config loading, env var expansion, and adjusted CLI argument names and validation behavior. Also tidy imports and minor refactors related to these changes.

README.md, after:

# 🐶 app-hound

**app-hound** is your energetic Mac audit companion! It sniffs out, fetches, and reports all top-level folders and files related to your apps, making it easy to clean up old traces or confidently uninstall software. Big on fun, clarity, and reliability, app-hound never includes noisy missing data or deep file listings, giving you a clear audit trail.

***

## Features

- 🐶 **Playful, doggy-themed audit messages**
- Sniffs out **top-level folders and files only**—anything inside can safely be deleted!
- **Automatic scanning of common macOS application and user data locations**
- **Flexible config loading** merges multiple files, expands environment variables, and supports extra locations (`additional_locations`)
- **Launches installers** for apps where desired
- **Clean, standards-compliant CSV output**:
  `App Name, Base Path, Folder, File name`
- **Tested to >95% coverage**
- Works with __Poetry__ for easy setup and dependency management

***

## Installation & Setup

1. **Install [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation):**
   ```bash
   curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
   ```

2. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/app-hound.git
   cd app-hound
   ```

3. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   poetry install
   ```

***

## Configuration (`apps_config.json`)

App-hound loads one or more config files from the project root by default, and you can point to other locations with the `-i` flag (comma-separated to merge multiple configs).

**Example:**
```json
{
  "apps": [
    {
      "name": "PDF Expert",
      "additional_locations": ["/opt/pdfexpert", "/usr/local/share/pdfexpert"],
      "installation_path": "~/Downloads/pdf_expert_installer.pkg"
    },
    {
      "name": "Slack"
      // Only defaults, no extra locations
    }
  ]
}
```

- **name:** The application's name.
- **additional_locations:** Optional extra locations to sniff for top-level folders/files.
- **env vars in paths:** Environment variables such as `$HOME` or `$USER` are expanded anywhere they appear in the configuration.
- **installation_path:** Optional installer path (local only) if installation should be performed.

***

## Usage

1. **Run app-hound:**
   ```bash
   poetry run app-hound -i ./
   ```
   Or sniff a single app without a config file:
   ```bash
   poetry run app-hound -a "Slack"
   ```
2. **Follow prompts:**
   - Enter any installer paths if relevant (app-hound will fetch them for you!).
   - Enter the desired output CSV filename.

## Help

- **app-hound -h**: Display help message.
- **app-hound -i <path>[,<path>...]**: Specify one or more directories (comma-separated) containing apps_config.json.
- **app-hound -o <filename>**: Specify output CSV filename.
- **app-hound -a "<app name>"**: Audit a single application without using apps_config.json.

***

## Audit Logic

- App-hound **lists only top-level folders and files whose name includes the app name**.
- If a folder named with your app exists in a target location, everything inside can be considered for deletion.
- **No "not found" entries** appear in the final CSV; playful status is shown in the console only.

**Example audit results in the CSV:**
```
App Name,Base Path,Folder,File name
PDF Expert,/Applications/PDF Expert.app,False,PDF Expert.app
PDF Expert,/Users/rohitkhanduri/Library/Application Support/PDF Expert,True,none
```

**Example console output:**
```
🐶 app-hound sniffs extra spots for 'PDF Expert'!
🐶 app-hound checks custom path: /opt/pdfexpert... Bingo! Found!
🐶 app-hound checks custom path: /usr/local/share/pdfexpert... No scent detected!
🐶 app-hound sniffs: '/Users/rohitkhanduri/Library/Application Support/PDF Expert' (folder exists). Ready to fetch all traces!
```

***

## Testing & Coverage

- Tests cover installer logic, config loading, playful console output, audit CSV, edge cases, and top-level matching.
- Confirm coverage with:
  ```bash
  poetry run pytest --cov=src/app_hound
  ```
- All console output and audit logic is covered; **coverage >95%**.

***

## Advanced & Contributing

- All major Mac user and system locations are searched by default—extend `additional_locations` for niche app data!
- Playful emoji and dog jokes are always welcome in PRs.
- Want an option to list all files recursively? Open an issue or send a PR!

***

## License

MIT

***

## About

A friendly doggy companion for Mac users and admins, app-hound helps you keep your system lean and clean (and might earn itself a treat!).
